Consumer Court Complaint Format

BEFORE THE CONSUMER DISPUTES REDRESSAL COMMISSION (WRITE THE PLACE)
COMPLAINT No.__________ OF
IN THE MATTER OF:
(Name and address of the complainant)        Complainant
Versus
(Name and address of the opposite party)     Opposite Party

COMPLAINT UNDER SECTION 12 OF THE CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT
Most Respectfully Submitted as Under:

1. That the complainant is a consumer within the definition of the Consumer Protection Act and is constrained to approach this Forum against the gross acts of the opposite party wherein he has committed serious deficiency of services and unfair trade practices. This consumer court complaint format is being filed against him for deficiency of his services.

2. That the complainant has purchased the following goods and services from the opposite party which has caused loss of time, value of money, harassment, mental tension, agony and pain to the complainant.

3. That the brief facts leading to the filing of the present complaint are as under:
(Narrate the brief facts of the matter)

Download the consumer court format and fill all the necessary particulars and adopt the same to be filed before the court.

4. That the supportive documents in above are as under:

(Enclose all the documents in support)

5. That the aforesaid amounts to deficiency in services and unfair trade practice and the Complainant is entitled to refund of his entire amount of money paid to the opposite party. The Complainant is also entitled to a compensation of Rs. —————- against the aforesaid deficiency of services by the Opposite party as the Complainant has been made to suffer due to the abovesaid acts of the opposite party. The Complainant is also entitled to compensation in lieu of physical pain, mental agony, and trauma due to all this.

6. That the complainant has issued the required notice to the opposite party which was received by him but he did not comply with the same hence this complaint.

P R A Y E R:
It is, therefore, prayed that the Court may direct the opposite party to refund the entire amount paid to him alongwith interest at the market rate along with an amount of Rs. ———————– as compensation to the Complainant in lieu of loss of value of money, harassment, mental pain, agony etc suffered by him.

That the Complainant is also entitled to the cost of the present litigation.

Any other order as the  Court may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances in favour of the Complainant be passed.

COMPLAINANT
New Delhi

```
Attachments to be added with this agreement form:
BEFORE THE CONSUMER DISPUTES REDRESSAL COMMISSION
COMPLAINT No.__________ OF
IN THE MATTER OF:
LIST OF DOCUMENTS ON BEHALF OF THE COMPLAINANT.
(Name and address of the complainant) Complainant
Versus
(Name and address of the opposite party) Opposite party

Describe all the documents being filed alongwith the consumer court complaint format.
COMPLAINANT
Through
ARs
```